Now that the midterm elections, featuring ObamaCare as a key issue, are over, the big question is what's next for the president's health care plan."ObamaCare was an issue for the candidates, it was an issue for the voters, and the voters are going to expect the people they elected to do something about ObamaCare," said health economist John Goodman.But what? House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, made clear the House will start with repeal and replace. "And so the House next year, I'm sure will move to repeal ObamaCare because it should be repealed," Boehner said recently. "It should be replaced with common sense reforms that respect the doctor-patient relationship."Some analysts say a simple repeal would cause problems because it would take insurance away from, million people."So if you repeal it, you're going to have to replace it with something," Goodman said. "And repeal and replace is just another way of saying we're going to change ObamaCare into something different and better."Jim Capretta of the Ethics and Public Policy Center added, "you need to not only say you're against the ACA ( Affordable Care Act), but you're going to need to have a replacement plan to show people you have a better way of providing people with health insurance coverage."Many Republicans want a new plan to replace the current one. Most of them would include tax subsidies -- in one case, up to about $, a year for a family of four, to buy any insurance plan they want without the restrictions of ObamaCare.They would also guarantee coverage of pre-existing conditions, allow children under  to stay on their parents' plans, and scale back many of the taxes in ObamaCare.But there's also bipartisan support to replace parts of the current law.Just after the elections, Sen.Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., the presumed next Senate Majority Leader, said, "there are pieces of it that are deeply, deeply unpopular with the American people. The medical device tax, which has exported an enormous number of jobs. The loss of the -hour work week. Big, big mistake."That is an issue also raised by unions, which complain that many employees are being shifted to less than  hours, so that employers are not required to provide insurance."A lot of employers reduce hours to avoid the mandate. A lot of them are outsourcing and using contract labor and temporary labor," Goodman said. "I think you might find a lot of support for simply getting rid of the employer mandate."As for the medical device tax,  Senators from both parties are on record as opposing it, including key liberals.Republicans also could act to guarantee that everyone who has an existing plan can keep it."I think that's the kind of thing that actually would be hard for many Democrats to oppose and resist because the president himself promised it,"Capretta noted.The Obama administration is set to roll out a series of climate and pollution measures that rivals any president's environmental actions of the past quarter-century - a reality check for Republicans who think last week's election gave them a mandate to end what they call the White House's "War on Coal."Tied to court-ordered deadlines, legal mandates and international climate talks, the efforts scheduled for the next two months show that President Barack Obama is prepared to spend the remainder of his term unleashing sweeping executive actions to combat global warming. And incoming Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell will have few options for stopping the onslaught, though Republicans may be able to slow pieces of it.The coming rollout includes a Dec.  proposal by EPA to tighten limits on smog-causing ozone, which business groups say could be the costliest federal regulation of all time; a final rule Dec.  for clamping down on disposal of power plants' toxic coal ash; the Jan.  start date for a long-debated rule prohibiting states from polluting the air of their downwind neighbors; and a Jan.  deadline for issuing a final rule restricting greenhouse gas emissions from future power plants. That last rule is a centerpiece of Obama's most ambitious environmental effort, the big plan for combating climate change that he announced at Georgetown University in June .(Also on POLITICO: Anti-Keystone groups won't quit)Obama announced yet another initiative Wednesday in Beijing, where he and Chinese President Xi Jinping jointly committed to targets for the two nations to curb their carbon emissions during the next two decades. And on top of all that, the administration is expected in the coming weeks to pledge millions of dollars - and possibly billions - to help poor countries deal with the effects of climate change.The pending EPA actions alone could amount to the most ambitious burst of environmental regulatory activity from Washington since President George H.W. Bush approved a crucial set of amendments to the Clean Air Act in  - although Obama's administration has already taken several big strides of its own, including limits on mercury pollution from power plants.The administration was committed to its upcoming deadlines many months ago, in some cases under court order, after postponing a number of the actions until after the  or  elections. Now that Obama is almost out of time, they're coming all at once.On deck are even more climate actions that will stretch well into . In June, EPA is due to put out a final version of its rule for cutting greenhouse gases from the nation's existing power plants - the linchpin of Obama's entire climate effort."In a world that was turned upside down on Election Day, two things are certain," said Heather Zichal, who served as Obama's top climate change adviser until . "One: Corporate polluters and their allies in Congress will continue to fight against progress on the broader climate agenda. Two: The president is and will remain  percent committed to his climate action plan and he'll fight to protect it."The kicker for Republicans eager to stomp all over the president's agenda: Congress has little immediate recourse, despite McConnell's pledges to use "the spending process" to rein in EPA. With so much action rolling through the pipeline, Republicans will have to choose their battles carefully if they want to make headway while proving they can govern.In an interview after Election Day, McConnell acknowledged that stopping Obama will be difficult, given the president's veto power. McConnell has also promised a return to regular order, and Republicans probably won't want to repeat last year's government shutdown in hopes of forcing the president's hand.(Also on POLITICO: W.H. not threatening Keystone veto)"I think that actually preventing EPA from moving forward on the climate change regs will be a challenge," said industry attorney Jeff Holmstead, who headed the agency's air office during the George W. Bush administration.If Congress tries to defang "high profile" regulations like those on carbon emissions, "we would expect the president to veto," said Cal Dooley, a former Democratic member of Congress who heads the chemical industry's trade association. "And I don't expect that you'll have a two-thirds vote in the Senate to override."Greens are counting on Obama to hold the line, especially on climate change."We are very confident that he will continue to take the common sense steps necessary to make this strong plan a reality," League of Conservation Voters President Gene Karpinski said in an email. "That may not please the climate change deniers, but it is the right thing to do for our health, our economy, and our security."(Also on POLITICO: Red-state Dems rise in Senate)On the other hand, a GOP-led Congress could pass agency-specific spending bills with riders that undercut rules that seem less important to Obama. Some Republicans think he might swallow an attack on the ozone rule, for example.Christine Todd Whitman, who served as George W. Bush's first EPA administrator, said the Republicans' new Senate leaders will at least try to hobble the agency."It's going to get harder for EPA," she said. "With Jim Inhofe as chair of the Environment and Public Works Committee, I think what they're going to do is starve the agency."EPA is not the only agency pushing new rules, however. The Interior Department is also expected to release a long-delayed draft regulation in the spring that tightens limits on mountaintop-removal coal mining.And Obama's negotiators are working on plans for an international global warming agreement, set to be signed in Paris at the end of , that would require the U.S. and other nations to slash greenhouse gas emissions for decades to come.(Also on POLITICO: Ted Cruz is out on a limb on Obamacare repeal)The U.S. is also expected to announce in the coming weeks how much money it will contribute to an international fund for helping poor countries deal with the effects of global warming. Developed countries have pledged to raise $ billion a year from government and private sources for that cause by , with some of the money going to the fund. But the prospect of handing billions of dollars in climate aid to the developing world is not going to win much applause from Republicans, who could block the money through the appropriations process.The U.S. will probably announce its pledge before or during a Nov.  meeting in Berlin."I think this will be one of the more challenging outcomes of the elections in terms of implementing the administration's climate plan," said Heather Coleman, climate change policy manager at Oxfam America.The administration had previously postponed many of the upcoming regulatory actions, most notoriously with the surprise September  decision to squelch EPA's proposal to lower its smog limits. That decision blindsided both EPA leaders and environmentalists, and was widely regarded as an effort to defuse a major regulatory controversy before Obama had to run for reelection.Similarly, EPA issued a proposed rule on coal ash in , but sat on it for nearly four years until a federal court imposed a deadline for this December. Greens are counting on Obama to hold the line, especially on climate change. | M. Scott MahaskeyAll the glare focusing on Obama's big climate rules means that other items on his environmental agenda are getting less public attention than they once did. That could aid Republicans' push to weaken some of regulations through negotiations with the White House and EPA, perhaps with deals to delay rules rather than repeal them outright. But that would depend on McConnell keeping the House from insisting on hardcore anti-EPA bills that would be surefire veto bait.The word from the Hill "is that McConnell really is interested in trying to show that Republicans can get things done, so I think they're going to try to come up with some narrow bills where the President could sign," Holmstead said.Among other possibilities, Sen. John Hoeven (R-N.D.) hopes to bring up legislation that would shift authority away from EPA on regulating coal ash ponds. Given the agency's previous reluctance to deal with coal ash at all, the White House might not fight him too hard.Efforts to tighten ozone regulations are clearly not a top White House priority either, given Obama's efforts to punt the rule in . But defying the court deadline to finish the rule - "that's where it's going to take congressional action," Dooley said. The manufacturing industry broadly opposes tightening the ozone standards, which it says could make permits more difficult and expensive to obtain.Former Sen. Tim Wirth, a Democrat who served as the Clinton administration's top international climate negotiator, thinks Obama will push through his main agenda regardless of what Republicans come up with." He'll just do what he's going to do anyway," Wirth said.
